# Nyarcher
Nyarcher is a Shell script to install [Nyarch Linux](https://github.com/NyarchLinux/NyarchLinux) customizations on many Linux Distributions

## Disclaimer
The script aims to give the most similar experience to Nyarch Linux on any Linux distribution, without editing system files. For these reasons, read the [What you are missing section](#what-you-are-missing).
Also, some applications, specially Nyarch Scripts, might not work correctly in non arch based distributions.
The only opeartions that are going to edit system files, are flagged with [SYSTEM]. They are not dangerous, but you better know that they are doing it.
If something goes wrong, by creating a new user on your distribution, you won't be affected by the changes that the script does, excluding the changes made by part of the script flagged as [SYSTEM].
## Install pre-requirements
**On any distribution, a working installation of Gnome 47 is needed**

### Arch-based distributions
```bash
sudo pacman -S curl python-pip flatpak gnome-menus kitty wget git neofetch npm nodejs btop gnome-menus gnome-shell-extensions tar
sudo pacman -S python-pywal
```
It is also suggested to install `webapp-manager` and `gnome-terminal-transparency` from the AUR.

### Fedora based distributions
```bash
sudo dnf install curl flatpak python3-pip svn gnome-menus kitty wget git neofetch npm nodejs btop gnome-menus gnome-extensions-app
sudo pip3 install pywal
sudo cp /usr/local/bin/wal /usr/bin/wal
```
NOTE: wal needs to be in /usr/bin/wal, this is the reason of the last command
### Ubuntu based distributions
```bash
sudo apt install curl python3-pip flatpak subversion gnome-menus kitty wget git neofetch npm nodejs btop gnome-menus gnome-shell-extension-prefs
sudo pip3 install pywal
```
## Running the script 
If you want to learn what the script does, you can read [NYARCHER.md](https://github.com/NyarchLinux/Nyarcher/blob/main/NYARCHER.md) file.
<br />
**NOTE: The script back-ups most of the existing configuration before overwriting them, also, excluding /usr/bin/nyaofetch and /usr/bin/nekofetch files, it only edits settings for the current user**
<br />
Download `nyarcher.sh` and add the permission of execution, then execute it
```bash
git clone https://github.com/NyarchLinux/Nyarcher.git
cd Nyarcher
chmod +x nyarcher.sh
./nyarcher.sh
```
The script will ask you if you want to apply some settings, it is **strongly suggested to say yes to everything** in order to have a stable experience.

## What you are missing
By running this script, you are not going to have the full Nyarch experience, here are the things that are missing from the script, but are present in the distro.
Note that almost any of those things can be integrated in any distribution, by running some commands or editing a few files.
- gnome-terminal-transparency is not installed by the script, it is a version of Gnome Terminal that implements transparency. Fedora users have it by default. You can install it from the [AUR](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/gnome-terminal-transparency)
- Webapp manager is not installed by default, you can install it from the [AUR](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/webapp-manager)
- plymouth (boot animation) is not installed by this script, and neither its theme. Plymouth installation is very distro-specific, [here is the wiki page for Arch Linux](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/plymouth). The theme used by us is [here](https://github.com/NyarchLinux/NyarchLinux/tree/main/Gnome/usr/share/plymouth/themes)
- The breeze to install Nyarch on your bare metal hoping it won't destroy your pc
- Calamares installation: Only available in the live ISO. It is an almost standard Calamares with adwaita qt theme, you can find here the [slides](https://github.com/NyarchLinux/NyarchLinux/tree/main/Gnome/etc/calamares/branding/ezarcher) that are shown during installation.
- `yay`, installed by the script, they are AUR helpers, you can install it with another AUR helper. Yay is also aliased as `nyay` because lol
- You will get some expected bugs that are not experienced on Nyarch:
  - Pywal theming is not going to be generated by default, to fix this, reload the theme (changing color theming from Nyarch Customize or just change the wallpaper if you have material you enabled) 
  - You have to log out and log in again after running the script
  - Nyarch Tour won't start after you log back in, just run it yourself
  - Nyarch updater is very likely to not work correctly
  - Material You might not be able to apply Material You Gnome Shell theme automatically without logging in/out on some distros (encountered in Fedora). An easy fix has not been found yet. A workaraund without logging out is to change Gnome shell theme on gnome tweaks (or in extension settings) to another and turning back to Material You theme 
